docs/faq.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

This page contains answers to frequently asked questions about GaNDLF.

- [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)
    - [Why do I get the error `pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound: The 'GANDLF' distribution was not found`?](#why-do-i-get-the-error-pkg_resourcesdistributionnotfound-the-gandlf-distribution-was-not-found)
    - [Where do I start?](#where-do-i-start)
    - [Which parts of a GaNDLF configuration are customizable?](#which-parts-of-a-gandlf-configuration-are-customizable)
    - [Can I run GaNDLF on a high performance computing (HPC) cluster?](#can-i-run-gandlf-on-a-high-performance-computing-hpc-cluster)
    - [What I have another question?](#what-i-have-another-question)

### Why do I get the error `pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound: The 'GANDLF' distribution was not found`?

This means that GaNDLF was not installed correctly. Please ensure you have followed the [installation guide](https://cbica.github.io/GaNDLF/setup) properly.

### Where do I start?

The [usage](https://cbica.github.io/GaNDLF/usage) guide is fairly comprehensive and provides a good starting point. If you have any questions, please feel free to [post a support request](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=--questions-help-support.md&title=), and we will do our best to address it ASAP.

### Which parts of a GaNDLF configuration are customizable?

Virtually all of it! For more details, please see the [usage](https://cbica.github.io/GaNDLF/usage) guide and our extensive [samples](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/tree/master/samples).

### Can I run GaNDLF on a high performance computing (HPC) cluster?

YES, we have run GaNDLF on an SGE cluster to great success. Please [post a question](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=--questions-help-support.md&title=) with more details such as the type of scheduler, and so on, and we will do our best to address it.

### What I have another question?

Please [post a support request](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=--questions-help-support.md&title=).

Commit message:

added link to all options

docs/faq.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

This page contains answers to frequently asked questions about GaNDLF.

- [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)
    - [Why do I get the error `pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound: The 'GANDLF' distribution was not found`?](#why-do-i-get-the-error-pkg_resourcesdistributionnotfound-the-gandlf-distribution-was-not-found)
    - [Where do I start?](#where-do-i-start)
    - [Which parts of a GaNDLF configuration are customizable?](#which-parts-of-a-gandlf-configuration-are-customizable)
    - [Can I run GaNDLF on a high performance computing (HPC) cluster?](#can-i-run-gandlf-on-a-high-performance-computing-hpc-cluster)
    - [What I have another question?](#what-i-have-another-question)

### Why do I get the error `pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound: The 'GANDLF' distribution was not found`?

This means that GaNDLF was not installed correctly. Please ensure you have followed the [installation guide](https://cbica.github.io/GaNDLF/setup) properly.

### Where do I start?

The [usage](https://cbica.github.io/GaNDLF/usage) guide is fairly comprehensive and provides a good starting point. If you have any questions, please feel free to [post a support request](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=--questions-help-support.md&title=), and we will do our best to address it ASAP.

### Which parts of a GaNDLF configuration are customizable?

Virtually all of it! For more details, please see the [usage](https://cbica.github.io/GaNDLF/usage) guide and our extensive [samples](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/tree/master/samples). All available options are documented in the [config_all_options.yaml file](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/blob/master/samples/config_all_options.yaml).

### Can I run GaNDLF on a high performance computing (HPC) cluster?

YES, we have run GaNDLF on an SGE cluster to great success. Please [post a question](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=--questions-help-support.md&title=) with more details such as the type of scheduler, and so on, and we will do our best to address it.

### What I have another question?

Please [post a support request](https://github.com/CBICA/GaNDLF/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=--questions-help-support.md&title=).
